go cool so this is the third episode of
koffee talks and this week I'm going to
be talking about GX which is super cool
package manager that I'm working on
building on top of I PFS and yeah also
making this coffee that I got in Paris
it's pretty good actually um
surprisingly but uh yeah so just gonna
do it in the Chemex and not really talk
too much about how that's working
because I've done this before and yeah
so GX is is a two letter name stands for
absolutely nothing I just literally
typed first two letters on the keyboard
that I could and made that the name of
the thing I was working and the reason
for it is I'm sick and tired of all
these different package managers not
quite doing things the right way ah
because manager really is like the base
based thing that it does is ok I've have
a package it requires these other things
I need to go get those things and then I
need to go get the things that those
things need and so on and that's like
every package manager does that and
every package manager appears to do it
differently and why that doesn't make
sense so that's that's kind of like the
base level of what effective manager
needs to do um and I guess really GX
isn't so much a package manager as it is
a base framework for content
distribution and managing up appendices
um you can easily build a package
manager on top of GX for example for go
right now I've built GX dash go which um
works really nicely because the way I
design GX is to work like it does and
you're so if I have a go project and i
use DX with it it's going to look
forward T X dash go by the node project
it's gonna end up doing things that's
going to look for GX dash know
to call up a bunch of like sub hooks and
anybody who's used like get hooks will
know kind of how that works any like and
get any binary you name as like get dash
some name you can run as and get that
name and it kind of like integrated into
the tool makes it feel unified which is
a really cool feature and that's kind of
like what I'm striving to kind of take
that same feeling into a package manager
so now the question is why why would I
do this um content addressing is really
nice it's great to be able to have a
hash that um that says this package is
exactly the package you're expecting it
to be nothing can possibly be different
unless there's like transient
dependencies done your OS which you can
still like account for there's no
versioning confusion you can say okay I
depend on this hash for this package
well you pretty much guaranteed to get
the exact same package you don't get the
weird semper crap order oh I did a minor
or a patch bump and it broke everybody's
code that's fun so I'm saying no
December and we're doing direct you know
this is what you're importing and so I
hope that's going to solve some problems
that we've had um the next thing is that
well this is cool file system thing
called I PFS and it's pretty neat it
does like you know you can distribute
files peer-to-peer and other fun stuff
like that um so I'm building 2x on top
of I PFS which means that we get all the
nice built-in peer-to-peer file
transfers on top of it um look that lets
us do is I I need to install a package
then if the person next to me has it I
can install it from them instead of
installing it from the global servers or
from you know some random CDN somewhere
which for things like when we r you know
up at Arctic j/s sitting in small barred
with you know a small pipe to the real
world and somebody off called runs MPM
install it won't kill our internet that
actually happened um that was really fun
we were trying to figure out what was
going on with the internet and our video
call dropped out and everybody like
looks right who's doing is using hey
Mike who's using Internet he's like oh I
just ran an NPM install I didn't think
anybody would notice no we noticed but
if you know if the NPM packages were in
I PFS then he would have just fetched
them from you know people around us
since the people that are thick ge'ez
probably have most of the NPM packages
in the world installed under computers
at some point um and i think david has a
hard drive with all of them on it if i'm
not mistaken yeah so yeah plus you get
into duplication which is really great
because if i have the same thing you
know at two different places i don't
have to sort twice it's just you know
referenced by the same hash and there we
go so we haven't got too many numbers in
yet but we're hoping that at least four
n p.m. we can save a lot of space by
doing all this duplication do you have
any comments on that David here ya go
for myself I want to meet yourself so I
don't have the numbers yet and we have
several strategies to do the chunking or
to do the unpacking of NPM packages and
depending on which ones we select and
depending how we add the packages like
bffs that will create different
different 30 minute call hello
someone was asking for chairs because we
are going to have a lot school yet so
yeah like we can L packages to advance
in different ways and that will create
different deduplication measures okay
sorry Oh teaching the other corner the
thing that I PFS select by using IP it
has as the transport lawyer for GX one
other thing that we get for free fri
sample package integrity right one of
the things that like npm is still
fighting right now is how to make sure
that if we install a package we actually
saw unicode that we are hoping for and
from and you can like talk more about
this journey is the weather GX works and
the way that GX in South packages
everything gets referenced by the ash so
you can make sure that you can have a
reproducible builds for your code
project because you will always install
the right package by their assets
instead of like by a module name and
version and you can always validate
their integrity on your local machine
without having to rely any other service
the evil question at that point I don't
particularly like typing hashes and I
not particularly good at remembering
them I'd rather type my nice package
name at one point oh how is that going
to be handled so um yeah I thought a lot
about that and the way that I'm this is
like our D&G axis we have this concept
of repose where you like so you know
about get remotes right we're in get you
can say okay I have this remote it's
named you know origin in its github com
/ blah blah blah in GX you can specify a
um a repo as just a hack and I PFS hash
or an IP NS entry or it you know I P&S
dns entry anything that can be resolved
and all that is is that's essentially
just a directory or an IP of s object
where the links are named and they point
to packages by that name and if you
add a repository to your GX config then
you can stay GX install this package
name by its short name and it will use
your repository is to resolve that to
the hash name and the way I've set it up
is that it can be you can configure
global repositories you can configure /
environment repository so I can set up a
repository for go one for node one for
linux you know and you know depending on
the situation you're in and you can also
set them up just per package so it can
be in the package config that this is
the repository to use and this so this
lets us still have kind of like a nice
pretty name space but it also lets us
avoid the gross like global namespace
collision crap um so you won't you know
you don't have to type in all these hash
names you just have to you know type in
your repo name once and configure it and
then from there you can use that right
but what about like for example I go on
to something like mpm and now I want to
install something from there that
without it copy and paste best from here
and then set that up manually it might
convey because that seems kind of
painful if I do that for a lot of
packages so for like four npm we would
just have one npm hash for the entire
nvm registry or repo and that could end
up being like just a domain it could be
npm names I BFS or something like that
or my BFS name and you'd add that as
your NPM registry repo and then anytime
you type an NPM package name it would go
to that to look up the hash that maps to
IC ok bad room up absolutely things
think about it I was like doing a shrink
Jack sorry at think about it as I doing
a shrink wrap on NPM + F in package
shining so you actually walk down to a
version and you warranty integrity of
the package and once you install it the
first time so imagine like you are
developing a new sir
notes and you'll do a GX install for all
your packages now you ship that package
of Jason to your production servers yeah
that package of Jason can have the ashes
for the modules that you installed and
you had a convenience of being solid by
name but when it chips to the pure build
servers to the production servers it's
going to be installed by the ash so the
production server can actually verify
before running the code that it got the
right package when it was right and
that's like when like a lot of
vulnerabilities happen right like
weights when like someone deploys a
piece of code that like is fetching from
somewhere and in my machine and it was
working nicely because I was touching
the right code but in this production
server someone managed to use one of the
new and other tax possible to ship some
new clothes inside a package that I had
no way to validate and I started running
that package on my production server on
my life service and by using GX plus I
PFS you get that for free I you get to
integrity checks free and you still you
can still have the convenience of using
names while you are developing your app
nice
I think like another thing that we can
also read Jim if you are talking right
now muted so and so I another thing that
we can also reference for GX is the case
of ulnar ship the idea that like you can
start everything like almost like a
registry instead of like being a place
where all the modules all the code is
stored can be just our reference to the
ashes for the modules X you might want
to install and then the modules leave on
a network it's all you can tell like to
store everything in one server or one or
more servers across the planet to be
able to serve everyone you can just like
use a network to the Liberty those
packages and I'll see you get like
namespaces swatch ownership of free for
a very long time like this is a battle
of every packet trainer chip ever
especially those ones that turn into
companies so that they have to provide
the service very well is out to create a
private namespace or just even a group
of Project an organization in space that
can still room in public but they want
to have ownership of that namespace in
the module name that we will publish
under that minister and you can do that
with IPS which is also part of our chats
right like you instead of just using raw
I PFF ashes you can have decide pns
these mutable links that beyond to a PFS
network and that still get validated not
true by cryptographically action the
module but by validating the digital
signature on the record let's get
publishes his name and you can create
like several independent names for your
organization or for multiple
organizations in the case so this not
checks but like this is almost like a
test case wash experiment such warnings
from the thing that we did in registry
mirror we were we constantly publish we
constantly publish an IP mls record with
the basically the listing of all the
module names on at 10pm and this way we
have like this universe like this this
namespace which is nvm with all the
modules that are available on NPM right
now
so I believe like you on the live stream
and then yeah you kinda you killed it
there um the other thing I wanted to
mention about GX is kind of a little bit
of the design um I mentioned earlier
about how does like the get style call
out to sub binaries so the way that
works is after everything you do like
let's say I do GX install after every
package is install or up every package
is installed it will call out to the
specific environment for a post install
or pre-install hook so like before its
installed it'll call pre-install and
then after it's installed it will call
post install and it does for update it
does that for all sorts of different
things and that way you know GX itself
can do the core heavy lifting of get
these packages resolve the dependencies
pull them down put them in the right
place and then your subtool can do the
minimal logic required to make it work
for your language or for your
environment platform whatever and I
think that's kind of like a really
beautiful thing for us to have that way
any improvements we make to the core
will benefit all this child package
managers and then we still don't force a
lot of things on the child you know all
the different package managers that use
it because they have the freedom to do
things really however they want then can
specify where things are installed at
they can specify like scripts to run
after they're installed they can do a
lot of really cool things and I think
that's kind of that's one of the things
get did really well as far as the
modularity aspect and I want to take
that and push it farther um another
thing kind of like in the same vein one
thing you can do with this is we can say
um well I want to make my environment be
a binary and so I can have a GX package
for installing a binary and then the
pre-install can be like check your
platform check to make sure that we have
the right minor this platform and then
redirect the package to use a different
you know binary install or even like
have it select the dependency and fetch
that dependency base
which platform you running and that way
GX install chrome or whatever and it
would go say okay you're on linux x86
you should go fetch this and download
this one and install it with these
dependencies and just works you know
that's that's my hope for this is self
somic distribution of like actual system
binaries and system packages easier
but yeah nice subscript are modular
enough so that you can do something like
everybody's not familiar with brew cask
so home brew cask is like this edition
of you can install packages but we're in
the sense of and so their dmg files
usually for mac and they have a visual
installer and cast as some magic to run
these visual and stores without actually
showing them to you so effectively you
could have something similar be just a
sub 2 of GX and doing all the magic of
running the installer for you but using
GX to download the actual boundaries
yeah you can totally do that and then
have the post install hook the the magic
thing that goes through the GUI window
and clicks the buttons for you and
that's as however cast does it you can
just throw that in a post install script
and it would be super bueno nice
what about yeah yeah 11 nasty thing so
there for example if you install an
anchorage from NPM buy a gift or for
example cask uses the official like
download locations if it actually
downloads the battery it doesn't do put
them anywhere else in addition is there
any way to do something like that so
fetching things from outside of IP of s
because things are just not there yet
for example if I fetch something from
one to install package from github it
will not be a festival we don't get help
so it has to be fetched somehow from
there right so um um so what we'd be
able to do is if you clone it down from
github and it still has the it still has
the package.json from GX all you have to
do is run GX install and then from there
it would go and grab everything it needs
and install it the same exact way um so
it's got it doesn't matter really how
you get the package as long as you have
the package.json and it looks right that
it's going to be the same
um I think that's what you were asking
ah probably I was just thinking about
something like I run neither GX install
github.com / my username my package that
it would just I guess fetch the package
at this point in time from github and
put it onto I PFS use that ash put that
into my package to Jason and if you're
jared lee oh yeah so happy buddy not
super difficult to do um we currently
don't I don't currently don't have that
built-in um but that wouldn't be too
hard you know in some way up check you
know detecting that this is a get
endpoint and knowing how to deal with it
from there one cool thing that's similar
for go in the GX go to lie have an
import an import method that will you
say GX go import and then a github like
go package path like a go import path
and it will recursively pull that down
pull its dependencies down and then make
all of its dependencies into GX packages
and build that up and then give you the
final hash of that thing you wanted to
import it's kind of like I PFS add but
for go packages and I spend a lot of
time working on that to the point where
you can do it with I BFS itself you know
the giant conglomeration of crap that it
is and it'll it just works yeah that's
pretty much where I what I meant it like
for like yeah there the download
managers to help this important
functionality to it yeah cool um any
other questions David I'm good I'm good
um um yeah repairs questions where can
people go to find out more yeah good let
the repo is underneath my username and
why are you sleeping / GX on github any
questions just go ahead and file an
issue or pygmy on IRC um definitely
filing issues is good and try it out um
you know give it a few test runs one of
my goals this week is to use it for
during I PFS I'm going to be pulling lib
peer-to-peer well-lit peer-to-peer is
already pulled out but i'm going to make
go I PFS use it as a GX dependency and
this is gonna be fun changing your tube
is always is there any example like any
quick examples of like a project that
people can like try and like ontology X
and injects install and I see the
package is being pulled for like us so
go look peer-to-peer right now if you
were to get clone that down um clone
that down and run GX install it was work
yeah to be the example because it has a
lot of like it has a lot of packages I
recommend not running your own Damon
because it will um set things up itself
and pull things through I PFS that way
and it does a faster job on its own
currently so I'm still figuring that out
but yeah it'll very very soon I'll like
it'll be faster and I'll figure that out
but if you don't run your own I PFS
Damon Jax runs faster not sure why but
yeah it for free lube peer-to-peer I've
done it multiple times now on different
computers get clone it down CD into it
and then GX installed um and it works
the only idea building sorry what I
don't think that alpha thrive it avoids
perfectly wait yeah the the only thing
you have to make sure is you have to
install GX + GX go since you're going to
be installing a go package
so that's just like the modularity
aspect of it but I'm going to try and
figure out a way to make those install
at the same time which would be nice um
but yeah that's GX and yeah any other
questions are we want to call this
remember cool well thank you all for
coming and see you next time Thanks over
it enjoy coffee cheers ears